<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title></title>
<link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body class="indent">
<div><h1>Bibliography</h1>
<div><div>Alperovitz, Gar. What Then Must We Do? Straight Talk about the Next American Revolution; Democratizing Wealth and Building a Community-Sustaining Economy from the Ground Up. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green, 2013.</div>
<div>Anderson, Chris. Free: How Today’s Smartest Businesses Profit by Giving Something for Nothing, reprint with new preface. New York: Hyperion, 2010.</div>
<div>———. Makers: The New Industrial Revolution. New York: Signal, 2012.</div>
<div>Ariely, Dan. Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions. Rev. ed. New York: Harper Perennial, 2010.&#160;</div>
<div>Bacon, Jono. The Art of Community. 2nd ed. Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly Media, 2012.&#160;</div>
<div>Benkler, Yochai. The Wealth of Networks: How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2006. www.benkler.org/Benkler_Wealth_Of_Networks.pdf (licensed under CC BY-NC-SA).&#160;</div>
<div>Benyayer, Louis-David, ed. Open Models: Business Models of the Open Economy. Cachan, France: Without Model, 2016. www.slideshare.net/WithoutModel/open-models-book-64463892 (licensed under CC BY-SA).&#160;</div>
<div>Bollier, David. Commoning as a Transformative Social Paradigm. Paper commissioned by the Next Systems Project. Washington, DC: Democracy Collaborative, 2016. thenextsystem.org/commoning-as-a-transformative-social-paradigm/.</div>
<div>———. Think Like a Commoner: A Short Introduction to the Life of the Commons. Gabriola Island, BC: New Society, 2014.</div>
<div>Bollier, David, and Pat Conaty. Democratic Money and Capital for the Commons: Strategies for Transforming Neoliberal Finance through Commons-Based Alternatives. A report on a Commons Strategies Group Workshop in cooperation with the Heinrich Böll Foundation, Berlin, Germany, 2015. bollier.org/democratic-money-and-capital-commons-report-pdf. For more information, see bollier.org/blog/democratic-money-and-capital-commons.&#160;</div>
<div>Bollier, David, and Silke Helfrich, eds. The Wealth of the Commons: A World Beyond Market and State. Amherst, MA: Levellers Press, 2012.</div>
<div>Botsman, Rachel, and Roo Rogers. What’s Mine Is Yours: The Rise of Collaborative Consumption. New York: Harper Business, 2010.&#160;</div>
<div>Boyle, James. The Public Domain: Enclosing the Commons of the Mind. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2008.&#160;</div>
<div>www.thepublicdomain.org/download/ (licensed under CC BY-NC-SA).&#160;</div>
<div>Capra, Fritjof, and Ugo Mattei. The Ecology of Law: Toward a Legal System in Tune with Nature and Community. Oakland, CA: Berrett-Koehler, 2015.</div>
<div>Chesbrough, Henry. Open Business Models: How to Thrive in the New Innovation Landscape. Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2006.</div>
<div>———. Open Innovation: The New Imperative for Creating and Profiting from Technology. Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2006.</div>
<div>City of Bologna. Regulation on Collaboration between Citizens and the City for the Care and Regeneration of Urban Commons. Translated by LabGov (LABoratory for the GOVernance of Commons). Bologna, Italy: City of Bologna, 2014). www.labgov.it/wp-content/uploads/sites/9/Bologna-Regulation-on-collaboration-between-citizens-and-the-city-for-the-cure-and-regeneration-of-urban-commons1.pdf.</div>
<div>Cole, Daniel H. “Learning from Lin: Lessons and Cautions from the Natural Commons for the Knowledge Commons.” Chap. 2 in Frischmann, Madison, and Strandburg, Governing Knowledge Commons.</div>
<div>Creative Commons. 2015 State of the Commons. Mountain View, CA: Creative Commons, 2015. stateof.creativecommons.org/2015/.</div>
<div>Doctorow, Cory. Information Doesn’t Want to Be Free: Laws for the Internet Age. San Francisco: McSweeney’s, 2014.</div>
<div>Eckhardt, Giana, and Fleura Bardhi. “The Sharing Economy Isn’t about Sharing at All.” Harvard Business Review, January 28, 2015. hbr.org/2015/01/the-sharing-economy-isnt-about-sharing-at-all.</div>
<div>Elliott, Patricia W., and Daryl H. Hepting, eds. (2015). Free Knowledge: Confronting the Commodification of Human Discovery. Regina, SK: University of Regina Press, 2015. uofrpress.ca/publications/Free-Knowledge (licensed under CC BY-NC-ND).&#160;</div>
<div>Eyal, Nir. Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products. With Ryan Hoover. New York: Portfolio, 2014.&#160;</div>
<div>Farley, Joshua, and Ida Kubiszewski. “The Economics of Information in a Post-Carbon Economy.” Chap. 11 in Elliott and Hepting, Free Knowledge.</div>
<div>Foster, William Landes, Peter Kim, and Barbara Christiansen. “Ten Nonprofit Funding Models.” Stanford Social Innovation Review, Spring 2009. ssir.org/articles/entry/ten_nonprofit_funding_models.</div>
<div>Frischmann, Brett M. Infrastructure: The Social Value of Shared Resources. New York: Oxford University Press, 2012.</div>
<div>Frischmann, Brett M., Michael J. Madison, and Katherine J. Strandburg, eds. Governing Knowledge Commons. New York: Oxford University Press, 2014.</div>
<div>Frischmann, Brett M., Michael J. Madison, and Katherine J. Strandburg. “Governing Knowledge Commons.” Chap. 1 in Frischmann, Madison, and Strandburg, Governing Knowledge Commons.</div>
<div>Gansky, Lisa. The Mesh: Why the Future of Business Is Sharing. Reprint with new epilogue. New York: Portfolio, 2012.</div>
<div>Grant, Adam. Give and Take: Why Helping Others Drives Our Success. New York: Viking, 2013.</div>
<div>Haiven, Max. Crises of Imagination, Crises of Power: Capitalism, Creativity and the Commons. New York: Zed Books, 2014.</div>
<div>Harris, Malcom, ed. Share or Die: Voices of the Get Lost Generation in the Age of Crisis. With Neal Gorenflo. Gabriola Island, BC: New Society, 2012.&#160;</div>
<div>Hermida, Alfred. Tell Everyone: Why We Share and Why It Matters. Toronto: Doubleday Canada, 2014.</div>
<div>Hyde, Lewis. Common as Air: Revolution, Art, and Ownership. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2010.</div>
<div>———. The Gift: Creativity and the Artist in the Modern World. 2nd Vintage Books edition. New York: Vintage Books, 2007.</div>
<div>Kelley, Tom, and David Kelley. Creative Confidence: Unleashing the Potential within Us All. New York: Crown, 2013.&#160;</div>
<div>Kelly, Marjorie. Owning Our Future: The Emerging Ownership Revolution; Journeys to a Generative Economy. San Francisco:&#160;</div>
<div>Berrett-Koehler, 2012.</div>
<div>Kleon, Austin. Show Your Work: 10 Ways to Share Your Creativity and Get Discovered. New York: Workman, 2014.</div>
<div>———. Steal Like an Artist: 10 Things Nobody Told You about Being Creative. New York: Workman, 2012.</div>
<div>Kramer, Bryan. Shareology: How Sharing Is Powering the Human Economy. New York: Morgan James, 2016.&#160;</div>
<div>Lee, David. “Inside Medium: An Attempt to Bring Civility to the Internet.” BBC News, March 3, 2016. www.bbc.com/news/technology-35709680</div>
<div>Lessig, Lawrence. Remix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid Economy. New York: Penguin Press, 2008.&#160;</div>
<div>Menzies, Heather. Reclaiming the Commons for the Common Good: A Memoir and Manifesto. Gabriola Island, BC: New Society, 2014.</div>
<div>Mason, Paul. Postcapitalism: A Guide to Our Future. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2015.</div>
<div>New York Times Customer Insight Group. The Psychology of Sharing: Why Do People Share Online? New York: New York Times Customer Insight Group, 2011. www.iab.net/media/file/POSWhitePaper.pdf.</div>
<div>Osterwalder, Alex, and Yves Pigneur. Business Model Generation. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 2010. A preview of the book is available at strategyzer.com/books/business-model-generation.</div>
<div>Osterwalder, Alex, Yves Pigneur, Greg Bernarda, and Adam Smith. Value Proposition Design. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 2014. A preview of the book is available at strategyzer.com/books/value-proposition-design.</div>
<div>Palmer, Amanda. The Art of Asking: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Let People Help. New York: Grand Central, 2014.</div>
<div>Pekel, Joris. Democratising the Rijksmuseum: Why Did the Rijksmuseum Make Available Their Highest Quality Material without Restrictions, and What Are the Results? The Hague, Netherlands: Europeana Foundation, 2014. pro.europeana.eu/publication/democratising-the-rijksmuseum (licensed under CC BY-SA).</div>
<div>Ramos, José Maria, ed. The City as Commons: A Policy Reader. Melbourne, Australia: Commons Transition Coalition, 2016. www.academia.edu/27143172/The_City_as_Commons_a_Policy_Reader (licensed under CC BY-NC-ND).&#160;</div>
<div>Raymond, Eric S. The Cathedral and the Bazaar: Musings on Linux and Open Source by an Accidental Revolutionary. Rev. ed. Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly Media, 2001. See esp. “The Magic Cauldron.” www.catb.org/esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/.</div>
<div>Ries, Eric. The Lean Startup: How Today’s Entrepreneurs Use Continuous Innovation to Create Radically Successful Businesses. New York: Crown Business, 2011.</div>
<div>Rifkin, Jeremy. The Zero Marginal Cost Society: The Internet of Things, the Collaborative Commons, and the Eclipse of Capitalism. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2014.</div>
<div>Rowe, Jonathan. Our Common Wealth. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler, 2013.</div>
<div>Rushkoff, Douglas. Throwing Rocks at the Google Bus: How Growth Became the Enemy of Prosperity. New York: Portfolio, 2016.</div>
<div>Sandel, Michael J. What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2012.</div>
<div>Shirky, Clay. Cognitive Surplus: How Technology Makes Consumers into Collaborators. London, England: Penguin Books, 2010.</div>
<div>Slee, Tom. What’s Yours Is Mine: Against the Sharing Economy. New York: OR Books, 2015.</div>
<div>Stephany, Alex. The Business of Sharing: Making in the New Sharing Economy. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2015.</div>
<div>Stepper, John. Working Out Loud: For a Better Career and Life. New York: Ikigai Press, 2015.&#160;</div>
<div>Sull, Donald, and Kathleen M. Eisenhardt. Simple Rules: How to Thrive in a Complex World. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2015.&#160;</div>
<div>Sundararajan, Arun. The Sharing Economy: The End of Employment and the Rise of Crowd-Based Capitalism. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2016.</div>
<div>Surowiecki, James. The Wisdom of Crowds. New York: Anchor Books, 2005.</div>
<div>Tapscott, Don, and Alex Tapscott. Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology Behind Bitcoin Is Changing Money, Business, and the World. Toronto: Portfolio, 2016.</div>
<div>Tharp, Twyla. The Creative Habit: Learn It and Use It for Life. With Mark Reiter. New York: Simon and Schuster, 2006.&#160;</div>
<div>Tkacz, Nathaniel. Wikipedia and the Politics of Openness. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2015.</div>
<div>Van Abel, Bass, Lucas Evers, Roel Klaassen, and Peter Troxler, eds. Open Design Now: Why Design Cannot Remain Exclusive. Amsterdam: BIS Publishers, with Creative Commons Netherlands; Premsela, the Netherlands Institute for Design and Fashion; and the Waag Society, 2011. opendesignnow.org (licensed under CC BY-NC-SA).&#160;</div>
<div>Van den Hoff, Ronald. Mastering the Global Transition on Our Way to Society 3.0. Utrecht, the Netherlands: Society 3.0 Foundation, 2014. society30.com/get-the-book/ (licensed under CC BY-NC-ND).</div>
<div>Von Hippel, Eric. Democratizing Innovation. London: MIT Press, 2005. web.mit.edu/evhippel/www/democ1.htm (licensed under CC BY-NC-ND).&#160;</div>
<div>Whitehurst, Jim. The Open Organization: Igniting Passion and Performance. Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2015.&#160;</div>
<div></div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>